the last 11 months since October 7th
have been and I don't think I I
exaggerate when I say that uh the
hardest time um you know for uh
definitely Israelis but I think Jewish
people around the world in the last
century um it was unfathomable to see
not just the atrocities that took place
on October 7th but how very very very
quickly after you know you have mass
demonstrations in in United States and
Europe and you know just uh you know in
New York and and top universities here
basically calling death to the Jews you
know and and quoting all sorts of stuff
that we haven't I mean this world hasn't
heard for almost 100 years and so just
um just very very very difficult
um and as I mentioned Jews feel very
much alone in this so again means a lot
now I will say this you know I I read
this article in one of the Israeli
newspapers the other day and it's a a a
so sociologist or psychologist a
researcher in one of one of the Israeli
colleges and she wrote an article
stating that she believes she predicts
that like it was in in Yom kipur war in
1973 which was a big shock for Israel as
well for those who may recall and at
that time she said she found literature
and she she showed that many many many
people many Jewish people in Israel have
turned to religion following the war you
know became Orthodox Jews and so on so
on and she predicts that's her
prediction that the same's going to
happen now you know this war is not over
but hopefully when it will be over and
so that's interesting and
um I I I filled out her questionnaire
and I'm considering making contact with
her because you know we we really see
that in the last um I'll say this in the
last
um especially last 15 years or so we
have been and maybe some of you have
watched some of our videos the majority
of videos we do is is in Hebrew and we
started doing videos about Yeshua and it
started with testimonials in Hebrew
about Jewish Israelis from all walks of
life that started to follow Yeshua and
you know people would hear a short
interesting story so people started to
watch it and actually was a really
tremendous response we started then a
lot of questions came we started doing
videos to answer those questions Israel
is a country of about just under 10
million of them about 8 and a half milli
million Jews our videos in Hebrew have
been watched more than probably 65 to 70
million times I mean think about just
the
exposure now this this past 11 months
you know when we when we entered the war
in our one of our main Hebrew channels
um we had 85,000 followers follower is
someone that whenever a video comes out
automatically they get it okay now it's
estimated that in Israel there are
30,000
Jewish followers of Jesus so 85,000
three times that number you know it's
still a good number and over the past 11
months this number went up well more
than quadrupled almost five times that
number uh true to last week that I
looked there were more than
450,000 followers now the vast vast vast
majority are not followers of
Jesus so I wanted to tell this
sociologist look I I I really think your
assertion is correct but I don't think
everybody's going to become Orthodox
Jews hopefully we pray that that many
will become followers of
Yeshua so uh anyway forgive this long
introduction but I want to go back um
and really what I want to talk about
today is um uh to talk about my my dad's
question do you think you're wiser than
all those rabbis that study the Bible
you know all those years and I'll say
this the fields are white my prayer
request would be for more people uh to
come and serve with us so anyway yeah we
can go to the next slide so I really
want to talk to you today about about
the prophet Zechariah we want to look at
his uh chapter 3 I want to tell you a
little bit about the prophet Zechariah
it's not on the screen uh the the
meaning of the name is God remembers
that's the meaning of the name Zachariah
he was from a very well-known Priestly
family and um so tribe of Levi and a
Priestly family and he was also a
prophet so he was both a prophet and a
priest um zechariah's prophecy gets a
really important place in uh the Hebrew
Bible among the the books of the
prophets both the Hebrew sages or the
Jewish sages and Christian Scholars see
zechariah's um prophecy as as sort of a
summary of the former prophets and we
we'll we'll see that as we look at
chapter 3 now there's a very very very
famous there is a very famous um Jewish
rabbi that um studied the Hebrew Bible
in uh in Spain in the 12th and 13th
century and as he studied the Hebrew
Bible he noticed something really
interesting and he called it the acts of
the fathers are a sign to the sons by
which he means through history God is
teaching us about the future and I think
if we look at our own lives we can see
that many many times it's definitely
definitely true I think for the Times
where living in now because now you know
and let let me before I say that
sentence let me say one more sentence um
as we look at the nation of Israel in
the Bible we see that the way God is
dealing with Israel in a sense is like
clock about his plan for Humanity
because God is interested in the
salvation of all Humanity always been
the case and Israel is just a a maybe
the the clock or the the arrow that kind
of points the the season and Zechariah
prophesied when the Jewish people came
back from the first diaspora the
Babylonian diaspora and now we are
living in a day and an age that God has
brought the Jewish people back from the
second diaspora and so as I look at
Zariah I want to ask I keep asking
myself what can we study from what he
did then about what's happening now
because if the first diaspora those that
return from the first diaspora prepare
the way for the first coming of the
Messiah then is this the second coming
from the second ASP prepares the way for
the messiah's second coming so again
this uh this young man Zechariah you
know he started ministering when he was
it's really difficult to say how young
but probably somewhere between a
teenager and early 20s so you know God
uses Young people and old people in all
ages so if you're young God wants to use
you and God has given Zechariah eight
Visions that's the first six chapter of
his books eight of his book eight
Visions in a single night that's a lot
for anyone but um anyway the prophecy of
Zechariah is quoted often in the in the
uh New Testament H more than 40 times in
fact but uh I'm not gonna for time sake
I'm not gonna go into that one thing
that I would I do want to mention one
more thing about the background for
Zechariah at that time the nation of
Israel had two leaders one was a civil
leader his name was zerubabel and very
importantly he was a descendant of David
a direct descendant of the family of
David so that was really important
because you know it comes from the uh
the um royal family and the second
leader was a a spiritual leader who was
the high priest the high priest and it's
really really really important for to
understand in chapter three is the
highest Spiritual Authority Under The
mosic Covenant I mean he is the
Spiritual Authority and he represents
the nation of Israel before God and you
may recall that on the shoulders he had
the names of the tribes of Israel and
also on his heart he had a brace plate
with the names of the tribes of Israel
so the high priest was a representative
as it were of the nation of Israel
before God and the the name of the
spiritual leader was Joshua and Joshua
was a direct descendant of uh Aaron as
the high priest and both though both of
them kind
of uh Led Led the nation of Israel and
as you can see on the screen the chapter
3 of Zechariah the fourth vision is
talking about my servant the branch I'm
going to expound on that just a little
bit it's a very short chapter so we're
going to go verse by verse so next
slightly there we go okay so verse one
verse
one then he showed me Joshua
the high priest standing before the
angel of the Lord and Satan standing at
his right hand to accuse him so here
here here is the the vision you know
again the particularly the Hebrew
language is very very very concise so
it's it's a lot of information in in
just a few words but that's the fourth
Vision God is showing the prophet a
vision where he sees Joshua the high
priest the highest Spiritual Authority
uh under the Mosaic Covenant and um he
is standing before the angel of the Lord
now the angel of the Lord is not just an
angel It's the angel of the Lord and in
chapter one of Zechariah God is showing
him who this Angel of the Lord is and
for time sake I'm just going to concise
it and say that um the Bible teaches
that the angel of the Lord is none other
than the pre-incarnate Messiah and we
will see through the chapter that the
angel of the Lord is equated with Yahweh
himself the name of God and so
Joshua stands before the angel of the
Lord now the expression standing before
always signifies in the Bible that
you're standing before someone greater
than you okay so and and that also means
that Joshua is standing before God in
his role as high priest cuz that's
really what he does now this is
expression of standing before we see
that H with Joseph before Pharaoh Joshua
before Moses David before Saul and
actually the entire tribe of Levi is
standing before God to serve him in the
Mosaic
Covenant and then there's another
character and we see that it's it's
actually like a like a judgment seat
kind of kind of arrangement um and if
he's standing before the angel of the
Lord as the judge there's an accuser and
the accuser is the Fallen Angel called
Satan and he's standing at his right
hand to accuse him now the word to
accuse actually is is using the word
Satan in Hebrew as a verb and he really
satanized him that's what that's what he
does he accuses that's his
nature um it's it's it's interesting to
see you don't have to go there but I'll
just read it to you in Psalm 109 and
verse 6 we read appoint a wicked man
over him and let an accuser same name
Satan stand at his right
hand
so I think they kind of it portrays for
us H the spiritual reality what happens
in the spiritual realm of uh Satan
trying to accuse to
blame God's people and certainly our
conscience and um and God now you know
the thing is it's not really clear what
he is saying the accusations are not
detailed but it likely went something
like
this God you choose that Nation what he
represents I mean look at them and we'll
see in verse three that was he was with
ultimate ultimate uncleanness they're
not worthy you choosing them and I think
that's we can identify with that because
that is ACC youing against us God you're
choosing them weak people I mean look at
them they're they're falling short all
the
time and that's not entirely wrong I
mean the accusation is not entirely
wrong but that's where it's becoming
really really encouraging so verse
two the Lord said to Satan the Lord
rebuke you Satan indeed the Lord who has
chosen Jerusalem rebuke you is this not
a brand plucked from the
fire so you know in the in the legal
scene there was no Defender defending
Council and the defending council is
none other than the judge himself who
basically walks forward and rebukes
Satan twice and the the the what's
translated here is the Lord is actually
yud Yahweh you know the the the specific
name of God and so uh in chapter one we
saw again we we didn't read it but you
can read it at home and see that the the
Messiah the pre-incarnate Messiah is
interceding on behalf of the people of
Israel and he's doing the same here
um I'll just mention very briefly you
can uh look at it at home in Isaiah 50:
8 and 9 we see an echo of of this
defense of God basically saying who can
accuse us if God is for us okay this is
in Isaiah 50 and and then of course that
Echoes we see that in a new Testament
we're familiar with the verses in Romans
83334 who can bring a charge against
God's elect that's a rhetorical question
the answer is nobody because the Messiah
himself is justifying us he's at God's
right hand interceding on our
behalf so Satan is still trying I mean
he's fulfilling his role as it were as
the accuser of the Brethren at this time
and he can try to pest us and to bicker
at us us but he cannot he cannot he has
no Authority on actually uh changing our
status as the Sons and Daughters of God
that have moved from Death to life and
if we've decided to follow the
Messiah we are his nothing can change
that because God's own character is that
and God says here you know when When God
Says has God the verse says the Lord who
has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you in other
words you know there and there are any
voices in the church today I don't know
if you're aware of it but most people
that identify as followers of Jesus
today do not do not believe that God
still has any sort of future for the
people of Israel I not to we're the
minority here I mean I hope you know
that okay and um God says here and if
you think that or anyone let me let let
me rephrase anyone that thinks that I
don't think realizes that the issue is
not about Israel it really is not about
the Jewish people it's about the God of
Israel because if God made unconditional
promises and then changed his mind it
says something about the character of
God and that is the main issue and
that's exactly the main issue here and
God says that he never never changes his
mind now the expression uh the end of
the verse a brand plucked up from the
fire is a a a repeat or a play on words
on a verse that we find in Amos uh
chapter 4 and verse
11 where God is saying something similar
uh through the prophet Amos and the
immediate meaning of the fire is the
Babylonian uh the Babylonian exile But
ultimately of course it talks about the
role of Israel uh in the plan of God for
all of humanity and there are many many
many like today that uh set out to
destroy the people of Israel the one and
only reason it was never successful is
because God is faithful there's no other
reason it's not the IDF it's not our
military hey we I love our military I
served my children serve but that's not
the reason I want to go to verses three
and four in some way the important
verses here now Joshua was clothed with
filthy garments and standing and
standing before the angel he spoke and
said to those who were standing before
him saying remove the filthy garments
from him again he said to him see I have
taken your iniquity away from you and
will clothe you with festal
robes now a couple of interesting things
in those Verses first of all what what's
translated as filthy garments don't know
what your translation says specifically
I think I'm reading from the King James
uh
literally means I mean the Hebrew says
that he is covered with feces so this is
like the ultimate uncleanness you know
for the high priest I mean it's you
cannot stand before God in this
way and it really symbolizes the
detrimental moral and general state of
Israel at the time and now filthy
rags wearing filthy rags is is an image
that we see in Isaiah 64 and verse 5
very well known for all of us have
become like one who is unclean and all
our righteous Deeds are like a filthy
garment but an echo to this verse is
also found in Isaiah 61 and verse 10
well-known verse as well God says I will
joice greatly in the Lord my soul will
exalt in my God for he has clothed me
with garments of Salvation that's a song
of the redeemed and that kind of Echoes
what's taking place in those couple of
verses so God is speaking Twice first of
all he's speaking to the others that
were standing before him Angelic beans I
guess and he says remove the filthy
garments from him take it off and then
he says to Joshua speaks to Joshua I
have taken your iniquity away from you
and will clothe you with festal robes
okay
so um just wonder does that remind you
of a parable in a new
testament yeah which one I me because I
heard I hear different people which one
does that remind you of the The Prodigal
Son there we go and I think that's
another kind of picture of of that in
Isaiah 51 and verse uh well wait we just
read that one so the point is that God
is removing the iniquity and the
uncleanness and he closes the high
priest with the Priestly robes in verse
five the prophet cannot contain himself
and he just bursts into the scene and
participates as it were then I said says
Zechariah let them put a clean turban on
his head so they put a clean turbine on
his head and clothed them with garments
while the angel of the Lord was standing
by so it's really isn't it really
interesting you know how how Zechariah
interferes in a sense but but God
listens you know and the high priest had
a a head covering what's called turban
here it's a head covering that has a
gold plate on his forehead says holy
unto God uh symbolizes the fact that he
is uh serving in his capacity as the
high priest and so with that with the
head covering his outfit is making him
completely ready to serve in what he was
called to serve and that's going to
become very very very important in the
coming verses who are in my opinion the
most well verses eight and N we're going
to get to them in a second the most
concise but detailed description of the
Messiah in the entire Hebrew Bible and
I'll I'll show you what I mean okay
verses 6 and 7 first and the angel of
the Lord admonished Joshua saying thus
says the Lord of hosts if you will walk
in my ways and if you if you will
perform my service then you will also
govern my house and also have charge
over my of my courts and I will grant
you free access among those who are
standing
here so the the word
admonished is to solemnly testify man so
so God is really drawing the attention
mention of Zechariah to the
following and he says your role is
really really really important and if if
you be faithful to what I give you I'm
going to give you great Authority more
than you currently have and and that's
really the the the gist of those verses
and I think also for us um that we serve
God now under the New Testament I think
often we don't realize our position as
sons and daughters of God I mean that is
really who we are everything else is
secondary to that you know we have a
temporary tent that we dwell in but
that's not really who we are we are a a
an embodied Soul that's really who we
are our real position is of Sons of
daughters of the Living God of the king
of the universe we are here represent
his representative on this planet that
is really who we are and that's kind of
what those verses are telling us and
then again in verse eight
uh and nine we see this amazing
revelation of the Messiah so verse
eight here now oh Joshua the high priest
you and your friends who are who sit
before you for they are men who are a
sign I want to stop here for a second
before I read the rest of the verse so
this quite
unusual in scripture when God is saying
okay listen to to this very very very
carefully this is really important and
that's what he does here he says to
Joshua listen very carefully not only
you but also those who sit before you so
as the high priest he had other you know
the priests and and and so other
spiritual leaders that were sitting
before him as it were you know his
Council later on he became the Sanhedrin
among the Jewish people and God says to
them listen really carefully because you
are men of a sign which means people up
to you I mean you are The Gatekeepers as
it were of spiritual matters in the
nation of Israel so hear this very very
carefully make sure you don't miss
out and he begin I mean the verse ends
with a very concise message then it kind
of expend just a little bit he says
behold that's the message behold I will
bring my servant the
branch now you remember when Nicodemus
came to Jesus
and Jesus SP to him about being born
again and he was like what are you
talking how can it be and I was think
about on the physical and Jesus kind of
wondered and he said you're a teacher in
Israel I mean you in the Sanhedrin don't
you understand so this concise message
in this verse is kind of the same in a
sense because he's talking about the
servant now the servant go the servant
of God is the topic of the book of
Isaiah
okay and the Le spiritual leaders of
Israel were supposed to be well-versed
you know until this day by the way
yesterday in every Jewish synagogue all
over the world Isaiah chapter 52 the
first part first 10 verses of Isaiah 52
will read so you're supposed to know
this stuff when I say my servant God
says you understand that he is the one
I'm talking about and you you know go
back to Isaiah and read all the details
there's a lot of details about about the
servant and what he's going to
do and not only that but he's also
talking he says my servant the
branch now the branch is another very
very very well-known uh Messianic titled
title um in the prophets we see it first
in Isaiah chapter 4 where God is talking
about the branch of God which is a very
odd expression when you think about it
then in Jeremiah 23 ver 5 the branch is
called the righteous branch and then in
Jeremiah
33:15 he is called yeah notice how God's
revelation kind of expands in uh
Jeremiah 33:15 is called David's
righteous brand whose name is the Lord
yud Yahweh our righteousness so he's a
descendant of David but he's also the
Lord our righteousness okay the humanity
and vinity of the Messiah in a single
verse so God is saying to the high
priest and the spiritual leader of
Israel make sure you don't miss out on
that I mean you guys need to know this
and then it gets even more detailed in
verse
9 we can go two slides ahead for time
sake verse n for behold again behold
calling for attention on the stone that
I have set before Joshua on a single
stone with seven eyes I will engrave its
inscription declares the Lord of hosts
I'm going to stop here for a
second so when when God wants to say
something very I don't know even more
dramatic I mean we should always notice
how God describes himself okay and here
is called the Lord of host you know the
name that signifies the power and the
might of
God and um he says the the the topic he
says uh to the leaders that I'm going to
bring the stone now the word Stone in
Hebrew I'm not going
to get too many too detailed about it
but here's the important the interesting
thing I think is the word Evan the word
Evan if you break it into two and that's
uh the ancient rabis said the word Evan
is actually made up of two words a
father and Ben son put together which I
thought was really interesting but the
stone is another well-known Messianic
title we we see that in Isaiah 286 it's
quoted often in the New Testament uh so
Isaiah 28:16 therefore thus says the
Lord God behold I am laying in Zion a
stone a tested Stone a costly
Cornerstone for the foundation firmly
placed he who believes in in it will not
be disturbed and then Psalm 118:22 also
quoted in the New Testament the stone
which the builders rejected has become
the Cornerstone okay so the stone is a
well-known Messianic
title it's not surprising it's it's
describing the Messiah that is coming
now what's amazing is that on that
single Stone it's singular there's none
like it okay but it has seven eyes on it
and that there's many many interesting
interpretations referring to Revelation
the seven spirits of God by Christian
Scholars um um Jewish Scholars talk
about the fact that it signifies or
symbolizes the fact that you know seven
the perfect number of God his eyes are
always on that stone there's special
care and relationship that God has to
the stone he's really watching over it
it's really important to God something
it talks about um omnis science knowing
the fact that God knows everything but
um that's kind of the description of
this singular Stone I want you to
imagine that there's this huge Stone
right here kind of laying in the
middle and
um and you want to engrave it you want
to put some sort of an inscription on it
so how do you make an inscription on a
giant Stone take a chisel or a large
nail right and you take a hammer and you
start chiseling away now what's amazing
here in that in that picture that God
has given us that God says that he
himself the Lord of hosts himself is
going to engrave that stone with its in
Inc
inscription so God says I'm going to do
it nobody else that does it I'm doing it
and I think he gives us a very clear
picture of what we sing about the fact
that the Messiah gave himself on the
cross was fulfilled in golgatha at least
partially fulfilled there um that part
was that God
has engraved inscripted as it were on
the hands and feet of his son on our
behalf
and what's the result what's the you
know the outcome of the mission of the
branch the servant the stone God says
next yeah I will remove the iniquity of
the land in a single day it's going to
be a singular
event where God is removing the sin once
and for all now you know in in the mosic
Covenant which was very very
transformative and and super I mean
amazing revelation of God God uh the
first time that God created a
relationship between a group of people
not just singular prophets or um
spiritual people but a group of people
and whole nation that could come to him
through a system of
sacrifices but um what happened if you
sinned under the Mosaic Covenant and you
sacrificed a sacrifice for your sin I
mean an animal died in your place there
was a replacement what happened to your
sin it was
covered and when I many years ago when
my kids were young I tried to explain it
to them oh well anyway that you know
they they I would go with my kids
somewhere and they would say uh oh you
know Dad buy us this and buy us this and
sometimes I would tell well we we we
can't we can't buy that now dad doesn't
have money for that and they would say
well you don't need money just you know
just just swipe the credit card and I
said well you know the thing with credit
card is that there comes the time where
Dad actually has to pay for it I mean
with real money for for for the the
credit card action and in a lot of ways
the sacrifices in the in the Mosaic
Covenant were like a credit card I mean
they were covered and covered and
covered but they were not removed they
were not removed they were covered and
here God talks about a mechanism if you
will in the death of the Messiah through
the inscription the engraving of the
servant and the branch that the sins are
absolutely
removed and that is absolutely unique
amen and this chapter
ends in verse 10 where it says in that
day declares the Lord of hosts everyone
of you will invite his neighbor to come
under his Vine and under his fig tree so
the vine and fig tree one of the fruit
of the land of Israel um you know
signifies the blessing of God so the
following or the result the outcome of
what the branch the servant the stone
will do is Abundant Life abundant peace
H what we have in the Messiah and so
that kind of concludes it then you know
I want to go back to where I begin with
my dad's question so do you think you're
wiser than all those rabis and the
answer is no I'm
not but you know God has been very very
very
clear about the identity of the Messiah
what he will do what it will do for
those who decide to follow him and it is
a mystery Paul the Apostle Paul calls it
a mystery how could the spiritual
leaders of Israel miss out not all but
mostly the majority miss out on who the
Messiah is on his first coming um you
know in Paul's language Paul's putting
it this way in Romans 11: 11 and 12 Paul
is saying this I say then is Israel they
did not stumble so as to fall did they
may it never be by the way the
expression is M never be is a very
strong expression in the Greek but by
their transgression salvation has come
to the Gentiles so the fact that the
leaders of Israel in accordance to God's
plan the majority of the leaders of
Israel didn't recognize the branch the
servant the stone has become a blessing
that brings salvation to the Nations to
make them jealous which by the way to
make the Jewish people jealous is one of
the primary missional um tasks of the
church I think is often neglected and so
again I'm so happy to be here with you
now if there Paul is finishing and
saying now if their transgression the
missing out on on Jesus be riches for
the world and their failure be riches to
the Gentiles how much more will their
fulfillment be
so you know
um Zechariah is talking in chapter 12
about the fact that a day is coming that
on a national
level not not as a Remnant one here one
there family here family there but as a
nation Israel would come to know the
Messiah to look upon
Him
whom whom we have pierced and so uh with
that I'll close and and just want to
finish with um kind of the the tagline
of one for Israel um there are many ways
there many great ways to bless Israel
but the best way to bless Israel is with
Yeshua is what that's what our people
need the most so thank you and may God
bless you thank you